# Specification document/Määrittelydokumentti

#### Overview
- Study program: Bachelor of Computer Science (TKT)
- Language used in documentation, code and comments: English

My project is about dungeon generation. I will use Python. I don't know other programming languages well enough to do peer reviews.

#### Algorithms
There are three main algorithms I'm going to use in my program: An algorithm used to generate the rooms, Bowyer-Watson algorithm and Prim's algorithm. After generating the rooms the program will connect them with
a triangulation. Bowyer-Watson algorithm is good for this. Once the triangulation is completed, the program will remove unwanted edges by forming a minimum spanning tree.
Prim's algorithm is good for this. Prim's algorithm will cut out all alternate routes between the rooms. If there is enough time I will create an algorithm which returns some of the removed edges based on a probability.
This will create alternate routes in the dungeon making it more interesting.

#### Data structures
I will use an array of tuples for storing the rooms' coordinates. In order to keep track of the rooms I might
create a room class which can be used for storing a room's id, size and coordinates all at once.
A triangle mesh data structure is needed for forming the triangulation with Bowyer-Watson algorithm.
The triangulation will basically become a graph that will be turned into a minimum spanning tree with Prim's algorithm. 

#### The problem
The problem I'm essentially solving is how to generate a dungeon with a logical layout. The rooms should have an appropriate size and all of them
should be accessible via hallways. The rooms should not overlap and the hallways should not pass through a room or each other.

#### Input
A user can define the number of rooms that will be generated by the program. 

#### Time and space requierments
My goal for both time and space complexity is O(n<sup>2</sup>). Bowyer-Watson algorithm runs in O(n logn) time and Prim's algorithm can be optimized up to O((n+m)logn) so they are both quick enought.
Other components of the program must be optimized in order to fit the wanted time complexity.  

#### Sources:
- [gamedeveloper.com article on dungeon generation](https://www.gamedeveloper.com/programming/procedural-dungeon-generation-algorithm#close-modal)
- [Wikipedia article on Bowyer-Watson algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bowyer%E2%80%93Watson_algorithm)
- [Wikipedia article on Prim's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prim%27s_algorithm)
